üèõÔ∏è Authority Dashboard Features 1. Dashboard Overview
(/authority/dashboard) Real-time Statistics Cards: Total Districts (24)
High Risk Areas (8) Active Alerts (12) Population at Risk (2.4M)
Interactive Filtering System: District dropdown filter Risk level filter
(Low, Moderate, High, Critical) Date range picker Apply/Reset
functionality Risk Zone Map: Large interactive map placeholder (600px
height) Color-coded risk indicators District boundaries and labels
Legend showing risk levels District Overview Table: Sortable columns
(District, Villages, Population, Risk Level, Active Alerts) Risk level
badges with color coding Pagination controls Action buttons (View
Details, Send Alert) 2. Alert Management (/authority/alerts) Active
Alerts Panel: Real-time alert cards with delivery status Progress bars
for delivery rates (SMS: 85%, WhatsApp: 92%, Push: 78%) Alert details
(Title, Risk Level, Affected Areas, Sent Time)Alert Creation System:
Alert type selection (Flood Warning, Evacuation, All Clear) Risk level
selector with color coding Multi-select affected areas Message templates
in multiple languages Delivery channel selection (SMS, WhatsApp, Push)
Schedule options (Immediate/Scheduled) Alert History: Tabular view of
past 50 alerts Search and filter functionality Delivery statistics and
response rates 3. Historical Data & Analytics (/authority/history) Time
Period Analysis: Quick filters (7 days, 30 days, 3 months, 1 year)
Custom date range picker Data Visualization Charts: Risk Level Trends
(line chart) Alert Distribution (pie chart) Delivery Success Rates (bar
chart) Population Impact (area chart) Data Export Options: CSV export
for spreadsheet analysis PDF reports with charts and summaries JSON
format for API integration Scheduled report generation 4. Contact
Management (/authority/contacts) Contact Database: Comprehensive contact
table with search Filters by region and role Contact roles: Emergency
Contact, Community Leader, Government Official, Volunteer Bulk actions
(Delete, Export, Send Test Alert) Contact Management: Add/Edit contact
modal with validation Bulk import from CSV Contact status tracking
(Active/Inactive) Notes and contact history Contact Groups: Predefined
groups (District Officials, Village Heads, Emergency Services, NGO
Coordinators) Custom group creation and management Group statistics and
member counts 5. System Settings (/authority/settings) Organization
Configuration: Organization name, type, contact details Logo upload
capability Timezone and language preferences Address management Alert
Configuration: Default message templates for different alert types
Delivery channel priorities and settings Auto-escalation rules and
timing Retry attempt configuration User Management: Admin password
management Session timeout settings Two-factor authentication toggle
Password policies and expiry settings System Preferences: Theme
selection (Light, Dark, High Contrast) Notification preferences Data
retention policies Backup frequency settings Maintenance mode toggle 6.
Professional UI Features Multi-theme Support: Light, Dark, and Black
modes Multi-language Support: English, Hindi, Assamese, Bengali
Responsive Design: Desktop-first with mobile compatibility Professional
Styling: Government-appropriate blue theme Role-based Access: Different
user roles and permissions Real-time Updates: Live data refresh and
notifications üéØ What Authorities Can Do Emergency Response Monitor
real-time flood risk across all districts Send immediate alerts to
affected populations Track alert delivery success rates Coordinate
evacuation procedures Manage emergency contact networks Data Analysis
Analyze historical flood patterns Generate comprehensive reports Export
data for further analysis Track population impact over time Monitor
system performance metrics Communication Management Maintain contact
databases Create and manage contact groups Send test alerts and
notifications Track communication effectiveness Manage multi-channel
delivery (SMS, WhatsApp, Push) System Administration Configure
organization settings Manage user accounts and permissions Set up
automated reporting Configure alert templates and policies Monitor
system health and performance The authority dashboard provides a
complete flood management solution for government officials, enabling
them to effectively monitor, respond to, and manage flood emergencies
across their jurisdiction.
